---
title: August 2021: 0.5.7 Release
author: Bryan Phelps
authorURL: http://twitter.com/bryphe
---

## What's New

It's been kind of a hectic couple of months for me personally, but there's been a lot of exciting things happening in the project.

### Emoji & Symbols Panel on macOS

TODO: Image / gif

Emojis are easier than ever to type in Onivim 2 on macOS! Zach added an integration to the macOS native emoji panel [#3613](https://github.com/onivim/oni2/pull/3613).

No longer will you have to leave your editor to find that perfect emoji :nerd: 

### Search Improvements

TODO: Image / gif

Zach has also made several improvements to the search pane. Toggleable regex-based search, ability to include or exclude files to search, as well as a case-sensitivity togglehave all been added to the search pane. We hope that these changes make finding text in your project easier!

### Right-click Menus

TODO: Image

Rounding out the changes made by Zach, right-click menus are now supported in Onivim 2!

For now, it's mostly just the setup work, such that we can start incorporating this into new features - but the fact the feature has landed means we can start to integrate more.

Fear not though, Onivim 2 is first and foremost keyboard driven, so there will always be a way to achieve actions via the keyboard.

### Quick-open Binds

Finally, Ryan has added some basic bindings to the quick-open menu (that is the <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd> menu on Windows/Linux, <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd> menu on macOS). These bindings let you open a file in various ways, instead of just replacing the current buffer (which is the current <kbd>Enter</kbd> behavior).

You can now open in a new horizontal or vertical split, or into a new tab (though that makes more sense with [Vim style tabs](https://onivim.github.io/docs/getting-started/vim-tips#how-do-i-get-the-tabs-to-behave-as-they-do-in-vim)).

The default bindings are:
- <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd>: Open in a new _vertical_ split
- <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>: Open in a new _horizontal_ split
- <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>t</kbd>: Open in new tab

These default bindings can be changed, with the commands used listed [here](https://onivim.github.io/docs/configuration/key-bindings#list--menu-commands).

### Titlebar Changes

The titlebar now has the option to pick between our custom Onivim 2 themed title bar, and a default OS themed one. Our custom title bar looks nice, since it can leverage theme colors. However, on some platforms - particularly Windows - the native title bar behaves better. There were some annoying usability bugs with our custom titlebar (windows shortcut keys not working, window overflowing to other screens, etc) - for this reason, the native titlebar is now the default on Windows.

The titlebar style can be adjusted with this configuration option:

```
"window.titleBarStyle": "custom"
```

## Bug Fixes

### Vim compatibility changes

Lots of changes went into to solidify and smooth over the connection to `libvim`, the
Vim heart of Oni2, to help make certain behaviours in Oni2 act more like they do in
terminal Vim:

 - #3606 - Vim: Fix hang when using `function` in `experimental.viml`
 - #3607 - Vim: Fix crash when specifying empty guifont (fixes #3605)
 - #3699 - Vim: Respect silent flag for output-producing commands (fixes #3680)
 - #3755 - Vim: Fix extra 'editor tab' with `:tabnew`/`:tabedit` (fixes #3150)

### VSCode Extension host changes

Similarly, lots of changes have landed that improve and extend our VSCode extension host
compatibility. Of note is that whilst some of these issues are "extension specific", we
aren't special casing any extensions. If we fix a bug with one extension, its very
likely to help unblock many others as well!

 - #3431 - Extensions: Serialize file system errors correctly to extensions (fixes #3418)
 - #3637 - Extensions: Unable to enter API key for WakaTime (fixes #3619)
 - #3571 - Extension: Implement `$tryApplyEdits` (fixes #3545)
 - #3335 - Extension: Fix selection bounds (fixes #3335)
 - #3709 - Extension: Fix activation error with nim extension (fixes #3685)
 - #3746 - Extension: Fix edit application in trailing spaces plugin
 - #3753 - Extension: Don't bubble up extension runtime errors to notifications
 - #3745 - Dependency: vscode-exthost -> 1.57.1

The full set of changes is available in the [changelog](https://github.com/onivim/oni2/blob/0cd8c424d5fb0bcdf209070ec3ab6296a3654eba/CHANGES_CURRENT.md). We hope that these help make Onivim 2 even better for you.

## Special Thanks

We had @sijad submit a nice fix for a stuck menu state, fixing an annoying UX issue and
getting a license key! (#3668).

@eEQK sorted a build issue where Oni2 wasn't building correctly when kicked off a
certain way.

We also received a few documentation updates this release, which is always very appreciated!
Updating documentation is something that most people can do and it really helps us out,
as well as helping out your fellow users!

 - @rogererens - Updating the Visual Mode documentation. (#3601)
 - @paul-louyot - Filling in some missing parts for the keybinding documentation. (#3626)
 - @Doerge - Tidying up some dead links in our getting started documentation. (#3740)

## What's Next

As mentioned in the beginning, it's been a challenging couple of months for the project. I'll elaborate a bit more in the next set of release notes.

There are several items that are top of mind for me next, including:
- Syntax highlighting improvements
- Code actions / refactoring

Thank you for reading and following the project - huge thanks to everyone who has helped us get here. 

Cheers,

Bryan, Ryan, and Zach
